#Newbie-Education

_2018's Newbie Education Changes and Process_

This year, our newbies have a much greater knowledge of coding than before. We attribute this to one key change made inout education process:

- Letting newbies code most of the robot
- Allowing them to complete Proof of Concepts (POCs) for things we might use in this year's robot.
- Letting them participate in fundamental aspects of robot development:
- Design
- Auton planning
- FieldMap
- Maintain a friendly relationship between newbies and oldbies (not just as coworkers)

The process started early in the previous year's post-season. Plans and slides were made for the curriculum this year, and they were slowly improved upon. This was paused over the summer, but resumed early with the start of school. We started to follow our curriculum, almost to the letter, and began to make good, concise progress. However, with the pressure of schoolwork, we were unable to make the outlines and plans as fast as we ran through them. This led to a sort of bottleneck once the plans ran out. We had to start teaching without having clear plans. The planning for the next day devolved into Slack discussions the night before, which really had a bad impact on our progress. Newbie retention suffered, and the teaching process was hindered greatly.

This slump in the quality of our newbie education was both a blessing and a curse. Our planning was indeed systematic and thought out, but it was also artificial, and beat down coding concepts into their heads for memorization instead of having spontaneous methods of teaching. In order to cope with the lack of planning, we started to rely on giving more projects in our lessons for the newbies to work on in order to kill time and get through the day. This was a much more hands-on approach, which made the newbies much more proficient than we had expected. They learned important coding concpets on their own, at their own pace, with the assistance of knowledgeable mentors and oldbies.

From this, we learned that it is important to have a mixture of both planning and heavy hands-on work. The progression of lessons should be done in a concise and clear manner, with there being clear plans for what the newbies are doing through the day. However, it is very important to leave off of the lectures and slides as much as possible, and try to give as much real work to the newbies as possible. Coding is not just memorization or typing, it is a process and a way of thinking which is only possible through practice and real work. 