# Newbie-Education

_2019's Newbie Education Changes

- This was the first year the Director of Newbie Relations position was created and led newbie ed
- I made sure that newbie ed had up to date lessons and material, writing a lot of them myself. -- Effect: not much change actually, I still was missing a lot of material such as PID and Motion Profiling, neither of which I was qualified to cover. At that point I should've gotten someone else that was qualified to do it, but I didn't. I left it to Kevin to take up that task for me. This did make it so that there were no lessons that were taught by the ec.
- Brought back the newbie ed repo, except this time I made sure it was updated with all the lessons, as well as posted extra resources for learning and activites -- Effect: I wasn't very clear about what resources were actually on the repo, nor did I do a good job of encouraging its use. A lot of people were still asking where the slides were located, and I wasn't able to keep its activities diverse enough. In the end, most kids were able to still find resources on their own
- I was the primary teacher for a lot of the lessons -- Effect: I didn't do a very good job keeping order in the classrooms, and sometimes newbies left because I got too caught up answering people's questions that I lost sight of the lesson. I did have the highest amount of newbies stay than in any of the years that I was on the team though, and also had a lot of newbies that were extremely dedicated to learning a lot more about Software Engineeering in general. A lot of the newbies were able to form very close bonds with the oldbies, and with each other.
- When teaching lessons, focused on creating analogies, and simplifying complicated topics into more familiar things, similar to what Adris did, except to a much greater extent, and I worked on being able to explain things in multiple ways. I also made the slides less formal, and included jokes about death and such. -- Effect: Newbie retention was higher this year, however, we found that the most dedicated newbies, and the ones that contributed the most, and went to the most meetings were the ones that did research on their own.
- Newbie ed was divided into three groups, the main newbie ed group taught powerpoint lessons, a second group consisting of newbies that were already well-versed in programming that would work on beta testing, and a third group consisting of newbies that had fallen behind the main newbie ed group. -- Effect: There was lackluster communication between all three groups. There was also difficulty in making sure that each group had things to do, as most people were centered on the main group. People in the third group had to take over a separate room, and a teacher had to manage teaching several different topics at once.
- Increased frequency of review lessons in order to try to help people that fell behind. -- Effect: People still fell behind in many cases. The review lessons were poorly managed, as they were very similar to the initial lesson. I think that in the future, we should instead make it so that review lessons are more focused on activities so.
- Tried to introduce activities that would more directly practice the skills newbies would require in order to work on the robot.
    - Stuyvesant Family Tree(practice using github and branches to work in the same repo as a team, as well as to review object oriented programming, by creating child classes off of a base class) -- Effect: It was a pretty big failure. The base class was full of syntax errors, and the project requirements weren't very well defined.
    - Scanner(Reorganized to stress looking through documentation and relying on that to work on tasks rather than memorization) -- Effect: It ended up being a project that a lot of newbies had fun fooling around with.
    - Rotating Sensor Stations(Learn about the sensors also through practice using them, newbies change the sensor they were working with every day, and rotate in 3 smaller groups so that they can work with each sensor even though we only had one of each, also to practice how to use shuffleboard to display data shown from the robot) -- Effect: It was a very fun project, where newbies were able to get actual experience with the robot. It was very memorable, and it's something that I think we should definitely do again
    - Reprogramming Rafael(get actual experience programming a robot, and all its subsystems -- but not auton because of limitations) -- Effect: It was able to work out relatively smoothly. Newbies each divided up into groups, all of which led by a newbie and they all worked together on making
    - Newbie Game(Newbies develop a game of their choice using processing) -- Effect: This was something that happened over the build season, due to a combination of a lack of newbie ed plans, and lack of work for newbies due to lack of auton. Despite being the Director of Newbie Relations, I was unable to contribute much due to a lack of processing experience. However, I should have stayed updated on the progress, which I was not. It helped develop skills with git, and made some newbies more interested in newbie ed. However, contributions were uneven among newbies.

Conclusions and Future Plans

Usually, whenever we create newbie ed curriculums, we usually try to teach the student everything that they need to know in order to do basic robot code, ie command based programming, basic autons, and later on, we teach them more advanced things like OpenCV, and more recently Motion Profiling. Yet, this approach has continually failed, and newbies usually end up just learning it themselves. I think that in order to remedy this, we should try to encourage newbies to research on their own more. I think this will end in more newbies staying, and end with the newbies feeling more prepared as a whole. I think we should do this by starting them off on big projects early on. I compiled a list of reasearch topics in google drive with potential study topics that I think newbies should be keeping in mind and working conditions.

